gNATSGO databases for the United States.

Version 4

Additional documentation can be found at:
https://www.nrcs.usda.gov/wps/portal/nrcs/detail/soils/survey/geo/?cid=nrcseprd1464625

Description

The gridded National Soil Survey Geographic Database (gNATSGO) is a 
USDA-NRCS Soil & Plant Science Division (SPSD) composite database 
that provides complete coverage of the best available soils information 
for all areas of the United States and Island Territories. It was 
created by combining data from the Soil Survey Geographic Database 
(SSURGO), State Soil Geographic Database (STATSGO2), and Raster Soil 
Survey Databases (RSS) into a single seamless ESRI file geodatabase.

The state-wide gNATSGO databases contain a 10-meter raster of the soil 
map units and 70 related tables of soil properties and interpretations. 
It is designed to work with the SPSD gSSURGO ArcTools. Users can create 
full coverage thematic maps and grids of soil properties and 
interpretations for large geographic areas, such as the extent of a 
State or the conterminous United States. Please note that for the CONUS 
database, only a 30 meter raster is included.

SSURGO is the SPSD flagship soils database that has over 100 years of 
field-validated detailed soil mapping data. SSURGO contains soils 
information for more than 90 percent of the United States and island 
territories, but unmapped land remains. Click here for the current 
completion status of SSURGO mapping. STATSGO2 is a general soil map 
that has soils data for all of the United States and island territories, 
but the data is not as detailed as the SSURGO data. The Raster Soil 
Surveys (RSSs) are the next generation soil survey databases developed 
using advanced digital soil mapping methods.

The first version of gNATSGO was created in 2019. It is composed primarily 
of SSURGO data, but STATSGO2 data was used to fill in the gaps. Five 
RSSs have been published as of 2021. These were merged into the gNATSGO 
after combining the SSURGO and STATSGO2 data. The extent of RSS is 
expected to increase in the coming years.

